Fixing GitHub Push Protection Errors: A Developer’s Journey
Introduction
When working with Git and GitHub, developers often run into issues that seem cryptic at first glance. One of the most frustrating is when GitHub refuses to accept a push due to repository rule violations. This article documents a real-world case: pushing a NestJS project to GitHub, hitting push protection errors, and resolving them by cleaning secrets from the repository history.

🛑 The Problem
Initial Setup
The repository was connected to GitHub with:

bash
git remote set-url origin https://github.com/manojnewgen/sleepr.git
Everything looked fine until the push:

bash
git push origin main
The Error
GitHub responded with:

Code
error: GH013: Repository rule violations found for refs/heads/main.
Push cannot contain secrets
It flagged multiple sensitive values:

Stripe Test API Secret Key

Google OAuth Client ID

Google OAuth Client Secret

Google OAuth Refresh Token

These were committed inside .env files in past commits.

🔍 Why GitHub Blocked the Push
GitHub has push protection enabled. It scans commits for sensitive values (API keys, tokens, passwords). If secrets are detected, the push is blocked to prevent accidental leaks.

Removing .env files in the latest commit wasn’t enough — the secrets were still present in the commit history.

🛠️ The Solution
Step 1: Stop Tracking .env Files
bash
git rm --cached apps/payments/.env apps/notifications/.env
echo ".env" >> .gitignore
git commit -m "Remove .env files from repo"
This ensures .env files won’t be committed again.

Step 2: Clean Secrets from History
Since secrets were in older commits, history had to be rewritten.

Install git-filter-repo:

bash
pip install git-filter-repo
Run cleanup on a fresh clone (important to avoid safety aborts):

bash
git clone --no-local C:\Manoj\nestjs\sleepr sleepr-clean
cd sleepr-clean
python -m git_filter_repo --path apps/payments/.env --path apps/notifications/.env --invert-paths
This strips .env files from all commits.

Step 3: Reconnect Remote
Inside the cleaned repo:

bash
git remote add origin https://github.com/manojnewgen/sleepr.git
Step 4: Force Push Cleaned History
bash
git push origin main --force
This overwrote the old history with the cleaned one, allowing the push to succeed.

🔒 Security Follow‑Up
Rotate secrets: Even test keys should be regenerated.

Use .gitignore: Always ignore .env files.

Store secrets securely: Use GitHub Actions secrets, AWS Secrets Manager, or similar.

✅ Conclusion
The journey from “remote rejected” errors to a successful push highlights two key lessons:

GitHub’s push protection is a safeguard, not a nuisance — it prevents accidental leaks.

Cleaning history with git-filter-repo (or BFG Repo-Cleaner) is the right way to remove sensitive files once they’ve been committed.
